Update SELF-ASSESMENT.md (#4984)
jaegertracing/jaeger: SELF-ASSESMENT.md

## Metadata

_A table at the top for quick reference information, later used for indexing._
|   |  |
| -- | -- |
| **Software** | [A link to Jaeger’s repository.](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger)  |
| **Security Provider** | No, the main function of this project is to enable distributed tracing in an organization’s tech infrastructure. Security is not the primary objective.  |

> | **Languages** | <ul><li>Go</li><li>Shell</li><li>Makefile</li><li>Python</li><li>Jsonnet</li><li>Dockerfile</li></ul> |

Reviewer: we do not use Jsonnet

### Background

See [README](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger/#jaeger---a-distributed-tracing-system)

### Actors

_These are the individual parts of your system that interact to provide the 
desired functionality.  Actors only need to be separate, if they are isolated
in some way.  For example, if a service has a database and a front-end API, but
if a vulnerability in either one would compromise the other, then the distinction
between the database and front-end is not relevant._

_The means by which actors are isolated should also be described, as this is often
what prevents an attacker from moving laterally after a compromise._

The following are the different actors found in the Jaeger project:

 I. OpenTelemetry SDK

 II. Deprecated [Jaeger agent](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger/issues/4739) (NOT REQUIRED)

 III. The Jaeger Collector

 IV. Jaeger Query

 V. Jaeger Ingester

> <img width="726" alt="jaeger_1" src="https://github.com/cp-57/tag-security/assets/109479938/b4b36eea-dd4b-46e2-b8ea-3239eeecf21c">

Reviewer: I prefer to refer to Architecture in the docs, not reference some random image

<i>Graphic #1 – Jaeger system architecture</i>

#### Tracing/ OpenTelemetry SDK

A Tracing or OpenTelemetry’s SDK downloaded on the client or host is used to generate tracing data. An “instrumented application” (ex. OpenTelemetry API) creates spans when receiving a request and attaches context info (trace id, span id, and baggage). Only Ids and baggage are propagated. Other info sent to Jaeger backend asynchronously (Jaeger SDK)

#### Deprecated [Jaeger Agent](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger/issues/4739) (NOT REQUIRED)

The Jaeger Agent is a deprecated network daemon used for listening for spans sent over UDP.

#### Jaeger Collector

> The Jaeger Collector receives processes, validates, cleans up/ enriches and stores traces in some backend data storage [(see supported)](https://www.jaegertracing.io/docs/1.50/deployment).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Jaeger Collector receives processes, validates, cleans up/ enriches and stores traces in some backend data storage [(see supported)](https://www.jaegertracing.io/docs/latest/deployment).
```

#### Inbound

* Inbound Users can contact the Jaeger team via email at jaeger-tracing@googlegroups.com, open an issue on GitHub or send a message to the [#jaeger channel on the CNCF Slack](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/CGG7NFUJ3).

#### Outbound

* Outbound the Jaeger team communicates with their users on their [website](https://www.jaegertracing.io/) and the [#jaeger channel on the CNCF Slack](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/CGG7NFUJ3).

### Ecosystem.

_How does your software fit into the cloud native ecosystem?  (e.g. Flibber is integrated with both Flocker and Noodles which covers virtualization for 80% of cloud users. So, our small number of "users" actually represents very wide usage across the ecosystem since every virtual instance uses
Flibber encryption by default.)_

#### OpenTelemetry Integration:

OpenTelemetry can be used in place of the deprecated Jaeger Agent.

* The OpenTelemetry SDK can be used to create trace data for Jaeger’s collector to collect and then store in a backend database.

> #### Istio Integration:

Reviewer: Jaeger does not integrate with Istio, please remove

Jaeger offers tracing capabilities for microservices running on Kubernetes by integrating with Istio, a well-known service mesh.

* When the services are instrumented with the Jaeger tracer, Jaeger's client libraries by default produce and send traces to Jaeger.
* These traces are accessible through the Jaeger Query User Interface and are kept in Jaeger's storage backend (Cassandra, Elasticsearch).

#### Cloud Native storage option:

Jaeger is compatible with a number of storage backends that can be used to store and analyze traces in a cloud-native environment, including Cassandra, Elasticsearch, and Kafka.

* Features and benefits that are specific to each storage backend include cost-effectiveness, scalability, and high availability.
* Trace volume, retention needs, and infrastructure already in place are a few of the factors that must be taken into consideration while selecting a storage backend.

#### Kubernetes Integration:

> Jaeger's Helm chart allows it to be deployed in Kubernetes.

Reviewer: also jaeger-operator

#### Prometheus Integration:

Prometheus is a well-liked open-source monitoring and alerting toolkit that can be combined with Jaeger.

* Metrics data and traces can be correlated by merging Jaeger and Prometheus. For instance, you can investigate the related traces in Jaeger to find the source of a latency spike that you see in Prometheus.
* Additionally, you may make custom dashboards to keep an eye on your microservices in a cloud-native environment by utilizing Jaeger's interface with Grafana, a potent data visualization and monitoring tool.
* Jaeger excels in distributed trace capture, while Prometheus focuses on time-series metrics for system monitoring. Together, they provide a comprehensive view of distributed system behavior and performance.

## Security issue resolution

#### Responsible Disclosures Process.

_A outline of the project's responsible disclosures process should suspected security issues, incidents, or vulnerabilities be discovered both external and internal to the project. The outline should discuss communication methods/strategies._

> Vulnerabilities are shared with users and then publicly.

Reviewer: there are no "users" who are separate from "public"

#### Vulnerability Response Process.

_Who is responsible for responding to a report. What is the reporting process? How would you respond?_

> A report can be sent via email at jaeger-tracing@googlegroups.com, open an issue on GitHub or send a message to the #jaeger channel on the CNCF Slack encrypted with Jaeger’s public key. Responses can be sent directly via the method used to contact the maintainers by the maintainers.

Reviewer: incorrect. Official process is in the docs, there is no need to duplicate it here https://www.jaegertracing.io/report-security-issue/

#### Incident Response.

_A description of the defined procedures for triage, confirmation, notification of vulnerability or security incident, and patching/update availability._

Security Advisories are listed and responded to on the [security tab of the Jaeger GitHub](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger/security/advisories).

## Appendix

### Known Issues Over Time.

_List or summarize statistics of past vulnerabilities with links. If none have been reported, provide data, if any, about your track record in catching issues in code review or automated testing._

#### Miscellaneous Issues

> * The Jaeger architecture relies on a central collector to receive and store trace reports from agents and microservices. The collector exposes HTTP endpoints like /api/traces for trace data submission, lacking authentication. This vulnerability opens the possibility of a Server-Side Request Forgery (SSRF) attack, enabling a compromised microservice to submit malicious trace data to the collector. Implementing token-based access enhances collector security by restricting entry to authenticated agents.

Reviewer: Jaeger does not *always* expose HTTP endpoints, it's up to the user to configure them with TLS. And we support mTLS for auth.

### [CII Best Practices](https://www.coreinfrastructure.org/programs/best-practices-program/).

_Best Practices. A brief discussion of where the project is at with respect to CII best practices and what it would need to achieve the badge._

* The Jaeger project has achieved passing level criteria under Open Source Security Foundation Best Practices and is in the process of obtaining the silver badge.

> * Jaeger-client-js and Jaeger-client-javascript is in the process of obtaining passing level criteria.

Reviewer: all Jaeger clients are deprecated, there are no plans to do anything with them.

### Case Studies.

_Provide context for reviewers by detailing 2-3 scenarios of real-world use cases._

#### Ticketmaster:

* Consisting of over 300 microservices, the company benefits from the Jaeger project, utilizing the system to track over 100 million transactions a day. 
* As the company scaled, they quickly learned that logging was insufficient and bulky. It helped uncomplicate the log aggregation process which generated terabytes of data daily. Jaeger simplified the debugging process by providing visibility into critical areas. – where developers could find root causes of issues and save time doing so.
* Ticketmaster uses the Directed Acyclic Graph (DAG) view to see request flow. 

> * They also take advantage of Jaeger’s powerful adaptive sampling feature which reduces overhead without reducing visibility into systems.

Reviewer: summary is fine, but why not link to the actual case study blog post?

Reviewer: https://medium.com/jaegertracing/ticketmaster-traces-100-million-transactions-per-day-with-jaeger-38ec6cf599f0

> #### Grafana Labs:

Reviewer: @joe-elliott I think this was true when published, but is GL still using Jaeger?

* They needed a solution to trace request issues end-to-end. Grafana sometimes dealt with high request latency and opaque request paths. 
* Jaeger allowed engineers to sort requests by duration with the Jaeger UI, which identified slow problematic requests and allowed for more granular troubleshooting. 
* The immediate effect of this higher efficiency troubleshooting was the ability to increase query optimization, sometimes by 5 to 10x. 
* One feature they particularly like is the contextual logging capability.

> #### Logz.io:

Reviewer: @jkowall I don't know where this information is from, is it accurate?

Reviewer 2: @yurishkuro I do not recall where this came from and was unable to find anything on it. 

@SarahSMou I would suggest using the first two bullets and the last one. You could mention that the logz.io product offering includes Jaeger inside it.

* The company was dealing with seemingly random decreasing performance issues in certain request flows. Logs failed to provide the answer or clue they were looking for. 
* They incorporated Jaeger into their Node.js HTTP layers. 
* The Jaeger UI immediately identified a series of issues including the serial call (a.k.a “staircase”) and a “span spike” (a request that ranged from a few milliseconds to 10 seconds).
* They correlate logs with traces. These combined allow for a powerful troubleshooting system. Logz.io does so by attaching a request ID field to every log and adding it as a tag to the respective span.

> ### Related Projects / Vendors.

Reviewer: Please remove this. I don't want to maintain comparative analysis with competitors - things change all the time. I don't even want to maintain a list of possible competitors - why should we advertise them on our site?

_Reflect on times prospective users have asked about the differences between your project and projectX. Reviewers will have
the same question._

> **ZipKin** was an earlier open source distributed tracing system which is used to help users monitor and troubleshoot microservice-based architectures. Both Zipkin and Jaeger aim to provide visibility into the flow of requests and responses across various services in a distributed system. While Zipkin has been around longer, Jaeger is known for its scalability to handle tracing in large and complex microservices and displaying those traces on the Web UI. Jaeger also has backward compatibility with Zipkin to help users transition from Zipkin to Jaeger. While Zipkin has been around longer than Jaeger, Jaeger has the benefit of being a part of Cloud Native Computing Foundation(CNCF), supporting containers, kubernetes and OpenTracing. To conclude, the decision between the two comes down to preference, supported languages and whatever is compatible with your existing tech stack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Zipkin** was an earlier open source distributed tracing system which is used to help users monitor and troubleshoot microservice-based architectures. Both Zipkin and Jaeger aim to provide visibility into the flow of requests and responses across various services in a distributed system. While Zipkin has been around longer, Jaeger is known for its scalability to handle tracing in large and complex microservices and displaying those traces on the Web UI. Jaeger also has backward compatibility with Zipkin to help users transition from Zipkin to Jaeger. While Zipkin has been around longer than Jaeger, Jaeger has the benefit of being a part of Cloud Native Computing Foundation(CNCF), supporting containers, kubernetes and OpenTracing. To conclude, the decision between the two comes down to preference, supported languages and whatever is compatible with your existing tech stack.
```
